All right, let's go ahead
and talk about something
much more interesting now.
So let's just say you have designed
this particular function
here that we discussed earlier.
And we also have one more
function inside it.
There could be many, but let's
not go too much in depth.
And that's a crazy way of writing
this, these kinds of functions,
but this is justifiable.
You have a function inside
that probably for some reason
you have decided to have one
more function inside it.
Usually I don't recommend it.
I try to keep it separate up here so
that I can call it whenever needed.
But let's just say
there are some issues.
So what if some variable are there?
So for example, this is maybe a tea,
order and I want to access this,
this is here, and I want
to access it from here.
So is there a way that I can go
ahead and access this tea order?
Or maybe this tea order
exists outside as well and from
within the function.
From this inside one,
I just want to access this one.
So is there any way that I
can go ahead and do this?
Yes, actually.
But you have to be very cautious
that how you're doing it
and you should know about this.
This is known as non
local and global.
I'll give you code example
because code examples
are much easier and fun.
And of course you are going
to build more code friendly
application, not just research work.
So research work has its
own place by the way.
But I think you want to build
something based on the research.
So there it is.
Let's call this one as non local.
Local.
That's a good name.
Py.
Let's have our example first.
I'll just close this one.
Have this on the full screen.
Come on, expand a little.
There we go.
Finally.
Okay, so how does it work?
Let's just say we have a simple
method that says update order.
There we go.
No problem at all.
Now inside this we have a chai type
which is not one of my favorite.
This is Indian spice Eli Chi.
So maybe just like me,
you don't like it.
And there's also a method
which is kitchen.
Kitchen and kitchen can actually
go ahead and want to
for some reason want to update.
They don't have the lychee,
they don't serve it.
So what they can do, they can use
a keyword that says non local.
The moment you say non local
that means you want to refer
something which may be just
outside the scope of it.
Like in this case
just above function.
So in that case I can just
Go ahead and refer this.
Now you have access to the chai
type which is above this.
Previously we didn't have access
and now I can just go
ahead and override this one.
So I'll just go ahead and use another
Indian spice, which is kesar.
So I'll say that.
Okay, now if I go ahead and run
this function as Kitchen.
So Kitchen has implemented this,
what you're going
to notice that the value
of the chai type is actually keser.
It's being changed.
So that's a fun one.
And make sure to keep it
in the notes as well.
Non local means from
inside to inside function.
You are just targeting
outside the function.
I'll show you one more
interesting part of this as well.
Right now let's just go ahead
and print this and we'll say after
Kitchen update,
what's the value of chai type?
Pretty simple.
Now let's go ahead and run this.
Have we updated the order?
Pretty simple actually.
Not a big deal.
Let's go ahead and run this again.
Python 3 is going
to run 07 non local.
And there we go.
After Kitchen, the value
is updated as caser.
But what if I go ahead and say
this line doesn't exist.
So if I comment this line out, what
is going to happen in that case?
So whatever you have added as a case
or child type, let's see the result.
That's easier.
It's always going to be lychee
because you don't have access this.
Although you have made a new variable
here, but this actually proves
the point that you are not accessing
this one here, outside this one.
This one line
is the whole difference.
Got it.
Pretty simple, no big deal.
Let's just say we are here
to make some more fun stuff.
So this is our chai
type that we have.
Can we go ahead and comment
out all of this?
Yes, but I think keeping a new file
would be much safer and much fun.
I'll create a new one.
We are not running short
of the variable names
or the files herein.
So we'll just go ahead
and call this one as global.
Global scope.
I can write that for sure.
Global scope py.
Let's just say in this case you
again have a chai type variable.
This time it's a global variable that
everybody looks for a plain chai.
Don't want to ask it anything.
Now there is also a method
that says front, desk.
And on the front desk of our chai,
you might want to define a kitchen.
So let's just say this is
kitchen, Kitchen.
And this kitchen wants
to update some things.
So there we go.
In this case, I want
to access the chai type which
is available globally.
And by the way, you can actually
refer this from any place,
from function within the function.
Within, within, within the function.
You got the idea.
All I have to do is use a keyword
global, and this global now can
access the chai type just like this.
Now I can actually refer, to this
chai type and I will call this one.
So there's a very popular chai
in India, which is Irani.
It's a pretty good, very
tasty chai, usually found
in the area near Mumbai.
But again, enough of the chai
knowledge, let's go ahead
and work on with this
kitchen function is running now.
And let's just say we run the whole
of the front desk,
use this method very, very carefully
and be extra, extra cautious.
Not just extra cautious,
extra, extra cautious.
Yes, I know.
You might be thinking why.
Too much of caution.
I'll show you.
I'll tell you a reason as well.
Final global chai.
And what's the value of it?
You might have already
guessed the value.
We are definitely updating it.
That's why I'm teaching you.
Otherwise why would I.
All right, so this time
let's just say we are running
this one and obviously
the chai has been updated.
The reason this alone keyword.
Now there is another thing which
might be bothering you that
instead of the global,
can I go ahead and use non local?
What happens in that case?
Let's just say if I go ahead and say
non local, then it says, hey,
there's already an error.
No binding for non local chai
type found because it's looking
for just above the function.
The non local is designed
specifically in such a way that it
should be looking up just in this
outer function, not the global.
So don't use non local.
There's a specific case for this one.
Okay, so let's go ahead and say
we want to access the global.
Just want to show you one more thing.
In the non local of this, let's
just say we have, another thing.
So let's just say we go ahead
and say chai type here as well.
Chai type.
And that's going to be ginger.
It's one of my favorite one.
And I want to access this.
Can I go ahead and access this?
Yes, you can.
Here you are accessing still
the code will run as it is.
No problem there because
you're using non local.
So if I go ahead and try
to use the non local just above.
No problem, you can go in.
But this is your global scope.
Remember always where the global
scope is for this entire file.
Anything which is outside of this
function in the global space.
This is global space.
Line number 11, line line number two.
If you want to access this,
you can actually, you can
just go ahead and say I want
to update the global one.
And you can just update the global
directly here as well.
So global is a reference
to global object from anywhere.
You can access this anywhere.
But if you just want to access
just above in the function
non local is your friend.
You should be doing it like that.
All right, I hope you got this.
One last thing which we want
to mention why you should be
extra, extra cautious
in using this global keyword.
I'll tell you.
So let's just say again, we
have a beautiful diagram.
This is your global scope.
And you say that I want
to use this chai type.
So there we go.
Chai type shouldn't be capital.
I don't prefer it.
Lowercase is good for me.
This is our global
scope that we have.
Now in this you are defining
different function.
This function is written by you,
this function is written
by your friend and this function is
written by another coworker.
Similarly, another coworker.
Now if everybody's trying to access
this chai type and trying to update
it, let's just say somebody says
true and, and this guy expects that
this function should always be true.
But this guy goes ahead and update
this, that, hey, I'm not going
to be saying this true, I
probably need this in a string.
And that should be saying,
ginger, because that makes sense.
Then what you have done, this
guy is also accessing this and now
you have changed the value.
So this whole piece of code
is not going to work.
So this is absolutely,
absolutely gone case here.
This code will break.
So usage of this local global, all
of this should be very, very
carefully done because you
might break somebody else's code
who is dependent on this one.
That's why it is recommended.
A lot of people you are going
to see that they avoid
totally using of the global.
But again, it's a use case
and there might be a specific use
case for you in this case or
in that, in your code case.
That is it for this video.
Let's go ahead and catch
up in the next one.